training for motocross is one of the
least I guess the most misunderstood
parts about racing a lot of guys you
know think that just going to the gym
and pumping iron and getting strong is
the way to go and a lot of you know
other people think that maybe going on
cycling rides and doing endurance and
other guys just go out to the track and
and ride but at least in my fix my
experience I found that it's a
combination of all of those factors all
of those things and a lot of other
things that lead to a complete program
Endurance's is probably the most crucial
aspect of being you know being obviously
being able to ride a long moto and not
fatigue not become tired and put
yourself in jeopardy of crashing due to
that fatigue I accomplished my endurance
from time on the bike doing Moto's
during the week to prepare for the races
on the weekends also doing things like
cycling both on the road and and
mountain biking swimming with lifting
weights rowing pretty much anything that
can get your heart rate up and keep it
sustained is gonna benefit you on the
bike because basically at least I found
that my heart rate on my bike when I'm
riding stays elevated for the whole time
that I'm out there more so than any
other any other sport or training that
I've done that being said riding motors
riding your motorcycle is the most
important thing that you can do and
probably the most beneficial
or some of you that might have a
full-time job it's difficult to get out
to the track every day or every other
day and and put your time in on the bike
but anytime you can get out you know
make sure you make it worth your while
by simulating your race do putting in
you know consecutive laps and keeping
your heart rate elevated for for as long
as you can and that'll really reap
benefits for you on the weekends at the
professional level you need to do a lot
more than just ride as I said before
weightlifting swimming and doing all
these other other things in addition to
even training your mind and learning how
to focus and really really know what
you're doing before you're gonna do it
and really believing in yourself that's
that's also a crucial aspect that maybe
a lot of a lot of fans are a lot of
local riders don't don't see but for me
personally that's one of the one of the
things that's helped me to get where I
am is just having that confidence in
myself and that confidence in my program
to know that I'm better prepared than
anyone out there for training for
professional motocross racing it's
important to have a complete program all
the way through from getting the right
amount of sleep at night your stretching
is very important being flexible to
avoid injury you've been working with
your mind and learning focus and balance
and hand-eye coordination and just
practicing all of those things in
addition to the endurance and strength
training that that you need to do to
just be able to sustain yourself on the
bike for the length of period that that
a lot of the professional races are
those are all elements of the program
that will make you a better Rider keep
you healthy and and keep you feeling
young so those are some of the things
that you can do to prepare yourself for
battling either on the weekends or at
the the national motor crosses and the
professional races across the country
and also make you feel a lot better
about yourself